---
title: How VR is used
module: 9
jotted: true
---

# How Virtual Reality is being used today

Unsurprisingly, the video games industry is one of the largest proponents of Virtual Reality. Support for the Oculus Rift headsets has already been jerry-rigged into games like Skyrim and Grand Theft Auto, but newer games like Elite: Dangerous come with headset support built right in. Many tried-and-true user interface metaphors in gaming have to be adjusted for VR (after all, who wants to have to pick items out of a menu that takes up your entire field of vision?), but the industry has been quick to adapt as the hardware for true Virtual Reality gaming has become more widely available.

## Virtual Reality and data visualization

Scientific and engineering data visualization has benefited for years from Virtual Reality, although recent innovation in display technology has generated interest in everything from molecular visualization to architecture to weather models.

## VR for aviation, medicine, and the military

In aviation, medicine, and the military, Virtual Reality training is an attractive alternative to live training with expensive equipment, dangerous situations, or sensitive technology. Commercial pilots can use realistic cockpits with VR technology in holistic training programs that incorporate virtual flight and live instruction. Surgeons can train with virtual tools and patients, and transfer their virtual skills into the operating room, and studies have already begun to show that such training leads to faster doctors who make fewer mistakes. Police and soldiers are able to conduct virtual raids that avoid putting lives at risk.

## Virtual Reality and the treatment of mental illness

Speaking of medicine, the treatment of mental illness, including post-traumatic stress disorder, stands to benefit from the application of Virtual Reality technology to ongoing therapy programs. Whether it’s allowing veterans to confront challenges in a controlled environment, or overcoming phobias in combination with behavioral therapy, VR has a potential beyond gaming, industrial and marketing applications to help people heal from, reconcile and understand real-world experiences.

<a href="https://www.marxentlabs.com/what-is-virtual-reality/" target="_new">Source</a>

## Real Estate

Solving agents’ struggles like spending time visiting properties, dealing with “it doesn’t look like the pictures” claims. Virtual reality offers a more realistic feel for interior and exterior of homes, apartments, office spaces.

## Tourism

Like Thomas Cook company who was first to bring VR to customers in their stores to experience journeys to Greece, Singapore, and New York via Samsung Gear headset. In result, the company got flight and hotel bookings for 12 million GBP.

## Education

Making it easier for students to understand and process the information in history, biology, literature, economics, and astronomy. A virtual trip to the Moon is much more compelling than a book about it, we can all agree.

<a href="https://thinkmobiles.com/blog/creating-vr-content/" target="_new">Source</a>