---
title: Course Introduction
module: 1
---

# Week 1<br />Welcome to Introduction to Augmented and Virtual Reality<br />(MART 391)


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CsUk1ttFbBM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Overview of the Course

This course is designed to be a place where you can learn how to design and develop applications for augmented and virtual reality.  We will look how these technologies are being used currently and explore how they can be used in the future.  We will use out-of-the-box thinking to consider how these technologies can and will change the way we interact with one another and the world around us.  

<!--# INSERT VIDEO HERE-->

## What to Expect

This course will expose you to new technologies, while also thinking about design, and content creation. Some weeks will lean more technical in nature, while others will lean more creative-based.

Just as the content focus will shift, so to will the work amount. Some weeks, especially those when new topics are being introduced, it might feel a little heavier. However, I want you to have a chance to practice with these new technologies and techniques so you feel comfortable with them. Some weeks will hopefully feel as if you are exploring and playing a little more.

<!--# INSERT VIDEO HERE-->

## Class Goals

There are 4 high-level goals for this course;

1. Learn how to problem solve. (More specifically, how to break a problem down into sub-problems that are easier to solve by themselves)
2. Adapt to constantly changing technological paradigms by learning how to learn. (Skills acquisition.)
3. Combine technical and artistic practices through inquiry and iteration.
4. Adopt and use professional practices.

<!--# INSERT VIDEO HERE-->

# Overview the Rest of This Week

The rest of this week will introduce the following;

- Information about instructors
- The Syllabus
- What is Augmented Reality?
- What is Virtual Reality?
